[gunshot]
[chuckles]
I'm not sure how, but it
looks like you missed us.
No way.
This doesn't make sense.
I... I was shooting at you
from point‐blank range!
Let go!
‐‐[BLOODHOUND B] Stop!
‐‐[BLOODHOUND D] Quit resisting!
[TAKANO]
Don't you dare!
Don't step on that!
[BLOODHOUND E]
Major Takano.
We're putting you under arrest.
[TAKANO]
Of course.
You're going to have me
take the fall for everything.
[sobs]
[BLOODHOUND D]
Get up! Enough already.
Put your hands behind your back!
No! Don't do this to me.
Let me go!
My grandpa's scrapbook!
Give it to me!
Hey! Dammit, stop struggling!
Please. You can't!
[BLOODHOUND E]
Freeze!
[TOMITAKE] Stop! Lieutenant
Jiro Tomitake, with research.
I'll be taking custody
of this suspect.
[BLOODHOUND B]
But, sir, our orders from HQ
were to return the
Major to Tokyo directly.
And in the state she's in,
you think she would
survive the trip?
Her body is covered
in scratches!
That's a late‐stage symptom.
She has Hinamizawa Syndrome,
and it's killing her!
[gasps]
[BLOODHOUND B] But, sir,
that shouldn't be possible.
Major Takano was inoculated
with a preventative serum
before she took this post.
And did you bother to read
that serum's documentation?
We already knew
that it's not effective
in 100 percent of cases!
She's our only real lead on
what's happening here,
but we won't get
anything useful out of her
if she's dead or delusional.
There are unknowns.
We can't assume she
was acting on her own will.
It's possible someone
else was using
her weakened state
to control her.
We can't know for sure
unless we treat her.
That's our duty,
and it's her right!
You're protecting me.
[TOMITAKE] Transport the Major
to the Irie Clinic right away!
Tell Lieutenant Colonel Irie
that we need him
to prepare a treatment at once!
Jiro, please.
Please help me!
[sobs]
[TOMITAKE]
Sorry I'm late.
It's all over now.
[TAKANO sobs]
[TOMITAKE]
I know you're not really
the evil person
you think you are.
You can still start anew.
Live a new life as the
person you were before.
The life that Miyoko
Tanashi deserved.
The life you had lost.
[TAKANO sobs]
I can't.
I have no right.
I can't shrug off
the weight of my sins!
I don't deserve
to be free of them.
If I try to leave them,
they'll consume me.
Maybe, but I'll be there
with you. Always.
I'll remain by your side
and help carry
the weight of those sins.
Is it right...
for me to keep living?
After all I've done,
should I be allowed
to be part of this world?
It's not for me to say whether
or not the world
will forgive you
for everything you've done.
But I know I can forgive you.
And as long
as you're still alive.
You can make things
right and start again.
[HANYUU]
It's enough.
I could never have hoped
for a greater miracle than this.
But is it really worth the
suffering you've had to endure?
I can't imagine this
alone makes up for it all.
Uh... Hey, guys.
Doesn't the
festival kick off soon?
Yeah! I'm so excited!
[MION] Hmm... And Watanagashi
gives us the perfect opportunity
to get our rookie nice
and broken in!
But I don't wanna be broken in!
You have many penalties ahead.
Poor, poor, pitiful Hanyuu!
Ohh! But this year, I can
finally do more than just watch!
You've seen the Watanagashi
festival plenty of times,
but now you can join
the fun in person!
[SATOKO] From here on,
no matter what happens.
We won't ever let anything
come between us, right?
Yes, no matter what happens.
[SATOKO]
Rika!
If we don't leave soon,
we're going to have
to run full speed
the whole way to school!
[RIKA]
Coming!
That you for waiting for me!
[SATOKO] As much as I appreciate
Mion giving us her old uniforms,
I still haven't quite
gotten used to them.
[yawns]
Come now, Rika,
not when you're out in public.
Did you not get a proper
amount of sleep last night?
I'm honestly still pretty tired.
[SATOKO] It seems you've had
a lot of late nights recently.
What exactly have
you been doing?
[RIKA] I'm sure you'll
laugh when I tell you,
so I'm going
to save it for later.
A secret you can't
even share with me?
I promise you, I'll share it
once the time is right.
Ni‐paa!
[CHIE]
Good morning to all of you.
Class rep, if you will?
Everyone, stand!
Wow, Rena.
How does your cooking
keep getting better
when it was so good already?
I can practically taste
those sides just by looking!
Do they honestly look that good?
Do they?
[KEIICHI]
Yeah!
The shrimp and fried chicken
are perfectly crispy,
but what's even more
impressive is the hamburg st‐‐
[gasps]
[chortles]
Surely you know better than to
let your guard down around me!
Satoko, you little brat!
Didn't anybody ever teach you
to respect your elders?
You have no one to blame
but yourself for this.
I believe I just told you
to keep your guard up.
Smug little...
Don't let her under
your skin, Keiichi Maebara.
There's enough
food for all of us,
so you'll be fine
no matter how much
Satoko grabs from
under your nose!
Well, you have a point.
It's all good.
Not like I'm gonna
go hungry, anyway.
[SATOKO]
That was anticlimactic.
I have to say,
that class rep position
has taken the edge off you.
It's still hard to
get used to the idea
that Keiichi is
our class rep now.
[giggles]
Well, it was Mion
for the longest time!
I'm having a hard time
getting used to it, too.
Now that she's graduated,
we barely see her anymore.
You talk like she
moved cross‐country.
She's a stone's throw
away in Okinomiya.
If you miss her so badly,
you should go visit her!
[KEIICHI] I thought
about going to see her.
But you know Mion.
She immediately started a
Game Club at her new school,
and it seems like that's been
taking up a lot of her time.
And the fact that we
knew it would happen
doesn't make it hurt any less.
I think growing up in
this little village school
is different from
how it is for most kids.
They all go to schools
that are split up by year,
and each year is split into
more than one class,
so they're more used to
not seeing all their friends
when the new school year starts.
Probably.
But just because Mion
has been making new friends
doesn't mean she's forgotten
about us or anything, right?
Being a member of
our club is a trial by fire,
and the bonds forged
through our activities
are far too strong
to break as easily as that!
[KEIICHI]
And it's not just us.
This club would never have
come together without Mion,
and we owe it to her to
make sure it can keep going
after we're gone,
the same way she did for us.
[RENA]
Right.
[KEIICHI]
On that note,
as President of
this illustrious club,
I call upon our daring
combatants to gather!
Yes, sir!
Uh...
Are you the only
ones here today?
[GIRL B]
Guys?
We wanna play, too,
if that's okay.
Sure! We'd love to have you!
That'll help, the group
is still small though.
I think that's 'cause
Watanagashi is coming up.
A lot of our classmates
have to go home
and watch their houses so
their parents can go help out
with the festival preparations.
[KEIICHI]
Oh, I gotcha.
That makes sense.
[SATOKO]
Keiichi.
Would you care to explain?
I just figured the first game
should be simple.
Even our newest
members should be able
to play a game of
concentration, right?
I'm not taking issue with
your choice of game here.
My concern is that you
opened a fresh pack of cards!
Is something wrong with them?
[SATOKO]
No, they're completely pristine,
so we can't tell what they
are till we turn them over!
Come on.
There's no point in playing
unless you play
by the rules, Satoko.
In fact, I'll make
"always play fair"
the club's new rule number two!
Who told you that
you could pat my head?
[KEIICHI]
You're not scared you can't win
unless you play dirty,
are you, Satoko?
Are you?
I'm afraid you're getting
your hopes up for nothing.
You'll see that my already
formidable memory
has only gotten
sharper with time.
Now where could
the other six have been?
It's not over yet, Satoko!
It's one of the ones
Okamura flipped last turn!
[SATOKO growls]
This one. Right here!
[KEIICHI]
And Tomita wins!
It was all just luck, honestly.
[KEIICHI]
And the loser is...
You couldn't even
match a single pair,
you poor, poor pitiful thing.
I refuse to count this
as a legitimate loss!
I don't know how,
but somebody cheated!
Anyway, why don't we
move on to the next game?
[RIKA]
Sorry, everybody.
It was fun, but it's time
for me to go home.
Right. You've gotta work on
your big dance for the festival!
Yes, exactly.
Swinging that big hoe,
going "hi‐yah" really loud.
It's super hard work!
See you all later!
[KEIICHI] Oh, well,
you gotta do what you gotta do!
[RIKA] Just because I ditched
the meeting didn't mean
you had to leave too, Satoko.
[SATOKO] I'm a bit curious
as to why you would lie
to our classmates like that.
You don't really
have practice today.
Yeah. I know.
Well, I can certainly
understand why
you would want to leave early.
What's the fun in a
game of concentration
when you play it straight?
I should have guessed
that you'd see right through me.
You're right, the idea of
playing an honest game
with my classmates just
isn't terribly appealing.
I was a pure soul
like that, once,
but your guerilla tactics
hardened my heart.
My soul is stained
as black as yours now.
Ni‐paa!
And it wasn't easy,
but you were worth it.
[RIKA] Rena and Keiichi are
the ones all our classmates
look up to the most.
They do things
differently than Mion,
so it's only natural that
the club is different
with them in charge.
[SATOKO] And to their credit,
they've done a wonderful job
of getting more of our
classmates to take part.
Which I can certainly
appreciate, but still,
I refuse to abide by this
"always playing fair" nonsense!
My talent for dirty trickery is
one of my greatest assets,
and I will not
let it wither away!
Then you'll need to
keep your skills sharp
by pranking Keiichi non‐stop.
Yes, that'll be perfect!
I'll bury him under
a hailstorm of washtubs!
How sad.
Poor, pitiful Keiichi
is going to have
a flat spot on
the top of his skull.
[laughter]
[SATOKO] Hinamizawa really
has changed over the past year.
It seems like we
all have, doesn't it?
But it's for the best
that everything doesn't
stay the same, right?
I understand it's a good thing,
but it's a little sad knowing
it'll never be how
it was before.
[IRIE]
This is troubling.
Alarming, in fact.
Huh?!
What's wrong?
Is it getting worse?
It's a step backward!
I knew from the outset
that a maid uniform
would suit you far better
than the school uniform,
both aesthetically and
functionally, and I was right.
If only I could have convinced
Ms. Sonozaki to see reason!
I'm with her
for what it's worth.
Irie.
I believe you have the
results of Satoko's checkup
if you'd like to share.
Yes, of course.
I beg your pardon.
As we've established,
the treatment has proven
to be highly effective.
Satoko's Hinamizawa Syndrome
has improved quite dramatically
in the course of the past year.
Well, that's because I've always
had you here to support me.
I can never thank you enough
for all that you've done.
I remember having to give
myself three injections a day,
and through your hard work,
that's gone all
the way down to one.
[IRIE]
As of this visit,
we're safe to cut that
number down to zero.
Sorry?
Are you saying that...?
[IRIE] Your test came
back completely negative.
I was skeptical,
so I went ahead and
ran multiple follow‐ups.
I would never tell you this
if I wasn't entirely
confident in its accuracy.
But I am.
It appears your Hinamizawa
Syndrome is gone.
Wait, it's completely cured?
You're saying
it's gone for good,
and it won't ever come back?
[IRIE] I'd still like
to run one more test
out of an abundance of caution,
but that seems to be the case.
I've been waiting so long
to hear you say that!
[IRIE]
Rika?
Huh?
I've gotten Satoko's results.
She's perfectly healthy.
But how is that possible?
I thought you told me
late‐stage Hinamizawa
Syndrome is incurable.
You said the symptoms
could be suppressed,
but that the patients carry
the disease with them for life.
Yes, I did.
It's hard to explain,
but it seems some
unknown factor relating
to the underlying cause
of the disease has shifted.
In fact, all of my Hinamizawa
Syndrome patients
have shown dramatic improvements
similar to Satoko's.
That's been the pattern
throughout the last year.
That's when it started?
Do you have some
theory regarding
what might have caused this?
[RIKA]
I could hardly even guess.
Ni‐paa!
A certain someone's faith
in humanity was restored
after being lost
a thousand years.
[KIMIYOSHI] It's such a rare
thing these days for the heads
of the three families
to meet like this.
Seems like we hardly
ever get the chance.
Everyone in the village'd
get their knickers in a twist
seein' us here like this.
[chuckles]
I suppose it's for
the best that it's just
the three of us here,
no prying eyes.
On that note,
what do we need
to talk about, Miss Rika?
Thank you for agreeing to meet.
I was hoping to ask a favor.
[ORYO]
Then ask it, girl, it's late.
There's something I'd
like to do at the festival.
[KIMIYOSHI]
Makes perfect sense to me.
All right, I'm with you.
For the sake of the village,
it needs to be done.
It takes a bit of
weight off us old folks,
but it also stops our burdens
from weighing down
these youngsters.
I got no objections.
Only having me and
Kimiyoshi won't be enough.
We need you to be
a part of this, Oryo.
How about it?
No objections here.
You do as the spirit moves you.
We should start making
our way to the river.
Yeah, let's go.
[drumbeats]
[MAN A]
The Mayor?
[MAN B]
Hold on a minute.
Is that Oryo?
Why're the heads of the
three families up on stage?
‐‐[WOMAN] Weird.
‐‐[MAN C] What's going on?
[KIMIYOSHI] Could I have
your attention, please?
We know you're ready
for the cotton drifting,
so we're going to try and
keep this as brief as possible.
I'm sure everyone
remembers the fight
that raged in Hinamizawa
just a few years ago.
That's right.
I mean the Dam War.
We fought to save
the village, and we won.
But our community was wounded,
and even to this day,
those wounds
haven't fully healed.
Sometimes the scars reopen.
Some of us kept taking
hits after the fight was done.
Lord Oyashiro
has seen us hurting,
and he feels our pain, too.
[KIMIYOSHI]
We must change,
or those wounds are liable
to bleed this village dry.
Us old folks can't leave
the next generation
to deal with this.
We spoke with Oryo about it,
and she agrees with us.
[murmuring]
Oryo approved this?
[KIMIYOSHI]
So!
On my authority
as village mayor,
I officially absolve
all parties of
any and all involvement
in the Dam War.
Huh?
[CROWD chattering]
[RIKA] I'm sure you've
all heard the stories.
Tales of the wrath
of Lord Oyashiro.
Some say he curses those who
trespass on his territory,
while others claim
that he curses villagers
who choose to leave home.
But not one of the stories
you've heard is true.
Lord Oyashiro watches over
us for our own protection.
And now he can rest at last,
knowing we're better
than we were.
Lord Oyashiro chose Miss Rika
to be his messenger
here in this world.
These are his words
from her mouth to
your ears, understand?
The curse from those
stories doesn't exist.
Straight from the
Priestess's mouth.
Not much arguing
with that, is there?
That's good.
We fixed the village's sails
in time to catch a new wind.
[RIKA]
Satoko?
What's this out of nowhere?
[RIKA]
I need to ask you a favor.
Would you mind taking
a shopping trip with me?
You might as well
ask me the favor, first.
You know that shopping
with you is a privilege.
Sevens Mart per usual,
I'm assuming?
[RIKA]
Actually, no.
This shopping trip is going
to be in Okinomiya.
Is there a big sale at some
chain we don't have?
Huh, I can't
remember the last time
we took a trip down
to the bookstore.
Were you thinking of
getting us a new cookbook?
[RIKA] There's something
I'm looking for.
[SATOKO]
Huh?
Rika?
Why are you back here
looking at the study guides?
Okay. What is this?
Or do I have to guess?
For a long time now,
there's a certain something
I've secretly been
dreaming of doing.
Rika. This is...
[RIKA]
Mm.
And now I want us to make
that dream come true
together, Satoko.
[RIKA] Next time:
Satokowashi‐hen, Part two.